gh-97696: asyncio eager tasks factory (#102853)
python/cpython: Doc/library/asyncio-task.rst

      and there is no running event loop.

Eager Task Factory
==================

.. function:: eager_task_factory(loop, coro, *, name=None, context=None)

    A task factory for eager task execution.

    When using this factory (via ``loop.set_task_factory(asyncio.eager_task_factory)``),
    coroutines that are able to complete synchronously (without suspending)
    are returned immediately as a completed :class:`Future`.

>     A regular :class:`Task` is returned otherwise, at the first suspension of *coro*.

Reviewer: This probably needs more/clearer explanation. I'd explain that it always tries to execute the coroutine immediately, until it either blocks, returns, or raises, and that when it blocks it returns a Task, when it returns/raises it returns a Future.

Returning a Future is still something I am skeptical about, since the task factory is global (for everything using the same event loop); I'll have to re-read the Issue. I'll come back here for the rest of the code review after I've had time for that.

    .. versionadded:: 3.12

.. function:: create_eager_task_factory(custom_task_constructor)

    Create an eager task factory, similar to :func:`eager_task_factory`,

>     using the provided *eager_task_factory* when creating a new task instead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    using the provided *custom_task_constructor* when creating a new task instead
```

      and there is no running event loop.

Eager Task Factory
==================

.. function:: eager_task_factory(loop, coro, *, name=None, context=None)

    A task factory for eager task execution.

    When using this factory (via ``loop.set_task_factory(asyncio.eager_task_factory)``),
    coroutines that are able to complete synchronously (without blocking)
    are returned immediately as a finished :class:`Task`.

>     This task factory attempts to execute the coroutine ``coro`` immediately

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The eager task factory attempts to execute the coroutine ``coro`` immediately before
    scheduling the task to the event loop. The coroutine will execute until it blocks, returns,
    or raises. If the coroutine blocks, the pending :class:`Task` is scheduled to the event loop
    and returned. If coroutine returns or raises, a finished :class:`Task` is returned, and the task
    is not scheduled to the event loop.
    
```

Author: @willingc does the latest version of this paragraph look good to you?

Reviewer 3: Yup. Looks good @itamaro.

>     When using this factory (via ``loop.set_task_factory(asyncio.eager_task_factory)``),
>     coroutines that are able to complete synchronously (without blocking)
>     are returned immediately as a finished :class:`Task`.
> 
>     This task factory attempts to execute the coroutine ``coro`` immediately
>     (before scheduling the task to the event loop), until it either blocks,
>     returns, or raises.
>     If the coroutine returns or raises, a finished :class:`Task` is returned,
>     and the task is never scheduled to the event loop. If the coroutine blocks,
>     the (pending) :class:`Task` is scheduled and returned.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    When using this factory (via ``loop.set_task_factory(asyncio.eager_task_factory)``),
    coroutines begin execution synchronously on `Task` construction. `Task`s are only
    scheduled  on the event loop if they block. This can be a performance improvement as
    the overhead  of loop scheduling is avoided for coroutines that complete synchronously.
    A common  example where this is beneficial is coroutines which employ caching to avoid
    actual I/O where possible.
```

    .. note::

>         The fact that the coroutine starts execution immediately is a semantic change,

Reviewer 3: Immediate execution of the coroutine is a semantic change. If the coroutine blocks, the task is never scheduled to the event loop. If the coroutine execution returns or raises, the task is scheduled to the event loop. This change may introduce behavior changes to existing applications. For example, the application's task execution order is likely to change.

      and there is no running event loop.

Eager Task Factory
==================

.. function:: eager_task_factory(loop, coro, *, name=None, context=None)

    A task factory for eager task execution.

    When using this factory (via :meth:`loop.set_task_factory(asyncio.eager_task_factory) <loop.set_task_factory>`),
    coroutines begin execution synchronously during :class:`Task` construction.
    Tasks are only scheduled on the event loop if they block.
    This can be a performance improvement as the overhead of loop scheduling
    is avoided for coroutines that complete synchronously.

    A common example where this is beneficial is coroutines which employ
    caching or memoization to avoid actual I/O when possible.

    .. note::

        Immediate execution of the coroutine is a semantic change.
        If the coroutine blocks, the task is never scheduled to the event loop.
        If the coroutine execution returns or raises, the task is scheduled to

>         the event loop. This change may introduce behavior changes to existing

Reviewer 2: Am I missing something, or is this backwards? With eager execution, if the coroutine blocks, the task will be scheduled to the event loop; if the coroutine returns or raises, it will never be scheduled to the event loop.

Author: good catch! yes this is backwards.

I was also thinking to add a note to the note about the "order of task execution" being arbitrary and not guaranteed regardless -- that's true, right?

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately I'm not enough of an asyncio expert to know off-hand what guarantees are or aren't currently made about the order of task execution. I didn't find any such guarantees in a quick skim of the docs, but I might have just missed the relevant section.
